# Systematic Approach for tDCS analysis (SATA) 
 a Matlab Based toolbox that works well with Matlab version 2017 and above. However, we have not tested SATA for other MATLAB versions. SATA works on Windows, Linux and Mac.
SATA is a post-processing toolbox after the tDCS montages have been simulated in COMETS or ROAST.
 ** To download the Graphical user interface (GUI) version of SATA, please visit https://doi.org/10.21979/N9/DMWPZK
 The SATA GUI package will allow the users to simulate the chosen montages in either COMETS or ROAST, and obtain the       post-processed simulation outputs from SATA. 
 Further, you may wish to not use the SATA GUI. In this case, you can download the codes from Github. However, you will     need to download SPM, Fieldtrip, and Talairach client (do add them to matlab path). Similarly, you will have to run     COMETS or ROAST separately to generate simulation outputs.So please do download them from their respective websites and  see how to use them from their manuals. For details on using the code of SATA, please refer the SATA MANUAL (section 3.4).


## Installation

The complete installation guide for SATA GUI package is availaible in the reference manual provided in Github or
https://doi.org/10.21979/N9/DMWPZK
---------------------------
--------------------

############# Features
# Input Features
- [1] Takes the montages simulated from COMETS or ROAST 
- [2] If you download the complete package from the link (above), you can simulate your montages in COMETS or ROAST from       the SATA GUI

# Output Features
- [1] Average Current density in each cortical Lobe - Amount of stimulation received in each cortical area of the brain
- [2] Gradient of current density across each cortical area.
- [3] Overlap of stimulation - If there are multiple cortical routes that process the information (For example, Dorsal and       ventral routes in Language, Vision, etc) in the brain, SATA helps to decide the montage that is most appropriate such       that a user can stimulate one route thereby minimally stimulating the other or can also chose the montage that            stimulates both routes.

#### Overall use of SATA

- [1] Solves the ambiguities in montage selection
- [2] Aids selection of Appropriate tDCS Montage

********* Please cite the following papers if you are using SATA

[1] Bhattacharjee, S., Kashyap, R., Rapp, B., Oishi, K., Desmond, J., & Chen, S. (2019). Simulation Analyses of tDCS     Montages for the Investigation of Dorsal and Ventral Pathways. Scientific Reports (in press) 

[2] Lancaster, J. L., Rainey, L. H., Summerlin, J. L., Freitas, C. S., Fox, P. T., Evans, A. C., … Mazziotta, J.  
    C. (1997). Automated labeling of the human brain: A preliminary report on the development and evaluation of a forward-    transform method. Human Brain Mapping, 5(4), 238–242.  

[3] Lancaster, J. L., Woldorff, M. G., Parsons, L. M., Liotti, M., Freitas, C. S., Rainey, L., Fox, P. T. (2000). Automated     Talairach atlas labels for functional brain mapping. Human Brain Mapping, 10(3), 120– 131.
  
[4] Oostenveld, R., Fries, P., Maris, E., & Schoffelen, J.-M. (2011). FieldTrip: Open Source Software for  
    Advanced Analysis of MEG, EEG, and Invasive Electrophysiological Data. Computational  
    Intelligence & Neuroscience, 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1155/2011/156869  

[5] SPM - Statistical Parametric Mapping. (n.d.). Retrieved July 5, 2019, from  
    https://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm/ 

    *If COMETS was used to generate inputs for SATA -
[6] Lee, C., Jung, Y.-J., Lee, S. J., & Im, C.-H. (2017). COMETS2: An advanced MATLAB toolbox for the  
    numerical analysis of electric fields generated by transcranial direct current stimulation. Journal of 
    Neuroscience Methods, 277, 56–62.

    *If ROAST was used to generate inputs for SATA -
[7] Huang, Y., Datta, A., Bikson, M., & Parra, L. C. (2019). Realistic vOlumetric-Approach to Simulate Transcranial     Electric Stimulation – ROAST – a fully automated open-source pipeline. Journal of Neural Engineering, 2019  
 
-- Contact----
For any queries and suggestions, please email us at clinicalbrainlab@gmail.com. Please understand that we are a small group and may not be able to respond very quickly.
